docs(pulsar): add CloudEvents schema wrapping, rawschema option, and processMode improvements (#5084)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-pubsub/setup-pulsar.md

| batchingMaxPublishDelay | N | batchingMaxPublishDelay set the time period within which the messages sent will be batched,if batch messages are enabled. If set to a non zero value, messages will be queued until this time interval or  batchingMaxMessages (see below) or  batchingMaxSize (see below). There are two valid formats, one is the fraction with a unit suffix format, and the other is the pure digital format that is processed as milliseconds. Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h". Default: `"10ms"` | `"10ms"`, `"10"`|
| batchingMaxMessages | N | batchingMaxMessages set the maximum number of messages permitted in a batch.If set to a value greater than 1, messages will be queued until this threshold is reached or  batchingMaxSize (see below) has been reached or the batch interval has elapsed. Default: `"1000"` | `"1000"`|
| batchingMaxSize | N | batchingMaxSize sets the maximum number of bytes permitted in a batch. If set to a value greater than 1, messages will be queued until this threshold is reached or batchingMaxMessages (see above) has been reached or the batch interval has elapsed. Default: `"128KB"` | `"131072"`|

> | <topic-name>.jsonschema          | N  | Enforces JSON schema validation for the configured topic. When CloudEvents wrapping is enabled (the default), the schema registered with the Pulsar Schema Registry is a CloudEvents envelope JSON schema containing the provided schema as the `data` field. | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <topic-name>.jsonschema          | N  | Enforces JSON schema validation for the configured topic. When CloudEvents wrapping is enabled (the default), the schema registered with the Pulsar Schema Registry is a CloudEvents envelope JSON schema containing the provided schema as the `data` field. See [Publishing & subscribing messages with Cloudevents]({{% ref pubsub-cloudevents.md %}})| |
```

> | <topic-name>.avroschema          | N  | Enforces Avro schema validation for the configured topic. When CloudEvents wrapping is enabled (the default), the schema registered with the Pulsar Schema Registry is a CloudEvents envelope Avro schema containing the provided schema as the `data` field. | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <topic-name>.avroschema          | N  | Enforces Avro schema validation for the configured topic. When CloudEvents wrapping is enabled (the default), the schema registered with the Pulsar Schema Registry is a CloudEvents envelope Avro schema containing the provided schema as the `data` field. See [Publishing & subscribing messages with Cloudevents]({{% ref pubsub-cloudevents.md %}}) | |
```

> | <topic-name>.rawschema          | N  | Component metadata flag. When set to `"true"`, registers the inner schema (Avro or JSON) directly with the Pulsar Schema Registry instead of wrapping it in a CloudEvents envelope schema. Use this for topics that exclusively receive raw domain payloads. Callers must also set the publish-time request metadata `rawPayload=true`. Default: `"false"` | `"true"`, `"false"` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <topic-name>.rawschema          | N  | When set to `"true"`, registers the inner schema (Avro or JSON) directly with the Pulsar Schema Registry instead of wrapping it in a CloudEvents envelope. Use this for topics that exclusively receive raw payloads. Callers must also set the publisher request metadata `rawPayload=true`. See [Publishing & subscribing messages without CloudEvents]({{% ref pubsub-raw.md %}}). Default: `"false"` | `"true"`, `"false"` |
```

| keys          | N  | A comma delimited string containing names of [Pulsar session keys](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/3.0.x/security-encryption/#how-it-works-in-pulsar). Used in conjunction with `publicKey` for publisher encryption |
| processMode | N | Controls whether messages are processed one-at-a-time (`sync`) or concurrently (`async`). Can be set at the component level and overridden per subscription via subscription request metadata. Default: `"async"` | `"async"`, `"sync"`|
| subscribeType | N | Pulsar supports four kinds of [subscription types](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/3.0.x/concepts-messaging/#subscription-types). Default: `"shared"` | `"shared"`, `"exclusive"`, `"failover"`, `"key_shared"`|
| subscribeInitialPosition | N | Subscription position is the initial position which the cursor is set when start consuming. Default: `"latest"` | `"latest"`, `"earliest"` |
| subscribeMode | N | Subscription mode indicates the cursor persistence, durable subscription retains messages and persists the current position. Default: `"durable"` | `"durable"`, `"non_durable"` |
| partitionKey | N | Sets the key of the message for routing policy. Default: `""` | |

> | `maxConcurrentHandlers` | N  | Defines the maximum number of concurrent message handlers in `async` process mode. A fixed worker pool of this size processes messages concurrently; when all workers are busy, backpressure is applied naturally. A value of `0` falls back to the default. Default: `100` | `10`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `maxConcurrentHandlers` | N  | Defines the maximum number of concurrent message handlers in `async` process mode. A fixed worker pool of this size processes messages concurrently. When all workers are busy, backpressure is applied. A value of `0` falls back to the default. Default: `100` | `10`
```

    value: "openid,profile,email"
```

### Schema validation and CloudEvents envelope

> When you configure a schema for a topic (via `<topic-name>.avroschema` or `<topic-name>.jsonschema`) and CloudEvents wrapping is enabled (the default), Dapr automatically wraps your schema inside a CloudEvents envelope schema before registering it with the Pulsar Schema Registry. For Avro schemas, the envelope follows the [CloudEvents Avro format spec](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/bindings/avro-format.md); for JSON schemas, it follows the [CloudEvents JSON format spec](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/formats/json-format.md). This ensures the registered schema matches the actual wire format of published messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr allows you to perform schema validation on Avro and JSON message schema using the `<topic-name>.avroschema` and `<topic-name>.jsonschema` metadata properties. When using this feature with CloudEvents enabled (the [default]({{% ref pubsub-cloudevents.md %}}), Dapr automatically wraps your schema inside a CloudEvents envelope before registering it with the Pulsar Schema Registry. For Avro schemas, the envelope follows the [CloudEvents Avro format spec](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/bindings/avro-format.md). For JSON schemas, the envelope follows the [CloudEvents JSON format spec](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/formats/json-format.md). This ensures the registered Pulsar schema matches the actual wire format of published messages.
```

The following table summarizes the behavior (applies to both `.avroschema` and `.jsonschema`):

> | | Default publish | `rawPayload=true` on publish request |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| | CloudEvents wrapper (default) | Raw messages |
```

|---|---|---|

> | **No schema configured** | Dapr wraps in CE envelope (JSON). No schema registered with Pulsar. Sent as raw bytes. | Dapr sends raw bytes. No schema validation. No wrapping. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **No schema validation configured** | Dapr wraps message in a CloudEvents envelope (JSON). Message sent as raw bytes as the `data` field. No schema registered with Pulsar. | Dapr sends the message as raw bytes without schema validation or CloudEvents envelope. |
```

> | **Schema without `.rawschema` flag** | Dapr wraps in CE envelope. Producer registers **CE envelope schema**. Validates against CE codec. | **Rejected** with error. Producer schema is CE envelope; raw payload would mismatch. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Schema validation with `.rawschema=false`** | Dapr wraps message in CloudEvents envelope. Publisher registers CloudEvents envelope schema (either JSON or Avro) and validates against CloudEvents codec. | Rejected with error. Publisher schema is a CloudEvents envelope and so raw payload fails validation. |
```

> | **Schema with `.rawschema=true` flag** | Misconfiguration. Producer registers **inner schema** but Dapr wraps in CE envelope — wire format won't match schema. | Producer registers **inner schema**. Validates against inner codec. Wire format matches. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Schema validation with `.rawschema=true`** | Rejected with error. Publisher registers raw data with Pulsar but Dapr wraps in CloudEvents envelope and so fails validation | Publisher registers raw data with Pulsar and validates against inner codec. |
```

{{% alert title="Important" color="warning" %}}

> Because Dapr wraps messages in a CloudEvents envelope by default, never use `.rawschema=true` on a topic that will receive default (non-`rawPayload`) publishes. The `.rawschema=true` flag must only be used together with `rawPayload=true` publishes on a dedicated topic, so that the registered inner schema always matches the actual wire format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Dapr wraps messages in a CloudEvents envelope by default, never use `.rawschema=true` on a topic that will receive default CloudEvent messages. The `.rawschema=true` metadata property must only be used together with `rawPayload=true` messages on a dedicated topic, so that the registered inner schema always matches the actual wire format. Read [Publishing & subscribing messages without CloudEvents]({{% ref pubsub-raw.md %}}) for how to use `rawPayload=true`.
```

{{% /alert %}}

> Since Pulsar enforces a single schema per topic, `rawPayload=true` messages cannot be sent to a topic using a CloudEvents envelope schema. To handle both CE-wrapped and raw payloads, use separate topics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Pulsar enforces a single schema per topic, raw messages cannot be sent to a topic using a CloudEvents envelope schema. To handle both CloudEvent-wrapped and raw payloads, use separate topics:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: pulsar-pubsub
spec:
  type: pubsub.pulsar
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: host
    value: "localhost:6650"
  # CE-wrapped topic (default behavior) — Avro example
  - name: orders.avroschema
    value: '{"type":"record","name":"Order","fields":[{"name":"ID","type":"int"},{"name":"Name","type":"string"}]}'
  # Raw-payload-only topic (skips CE wrapping) — Avro example
  - name: orders-raw.avroschema
    value: '{"type":"record","name":"Order","fields":[{"name":"ID","type":"int"},{"name":"Name","type":"string"}]}'
  - name: orders-raw.rawschema
    value: "true"
  # Raw-payload-only topic — JSON schema example
  - name: events-raw.jsonschema
    value: '{"type":"object","properties":{"id":{"type":"integer"},"name":{"type":"string"}},"required":["id","name"]}'
  - name: events-raw.rawschema
    value: "true"
```

> Publishing with `rawPayload=true` to a CE-wrapped topic returns the error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publishing raw messages to a CloudEvent wrapped topic returns the error:
```
